Impeded by decades of alarming ineptitude, the New York Knicks finally created a splash for the right reasons.

They went out and hired the Zen Master, Phil Jackson, as president. We've been assured that the chairman with zero championships, James Dolan, will leave the 11-time champ alone to do what is best for the team. There's a new coach in town with five rings on his résumé. There's a $124 million star locked down for the next five years, a decent point guard, a young kid who can shoot with a pedigree you can believe in, and a level of structure unseen in these parts since Jeff Van Gundy and Patrick Ewing were patrolling Gotham City.

If you closed your eyes, prayed, then blinked, you wouldn't believe these are the same Knicks we've been suffering with for decades.

That is until you scour the rest of the Eastern Conference, and the schedule, and the players on the Knicks' roster supposedly eager to make amends for a dismal 37-45 season that kept them from the postseason. And only then is it clear: "We have an awful lot of work to do," new Knicks coach Derek Fisher told me over the summer.


Derek Fisher and Phil Jackson's new project should bring a boost this season. But the East is too strong to allow the Knicks to contend. AP Photo/Seth Wenig
Ya think?

Without a title drought at 41 years and counting, it's safe to say this much about the 2014-15 Knicks: They should make the postseason. But is that really saying much?

The real question is: Are these Knicks truly contenders? Or are they just pretenders taking up space in the last week of April?

When Carmelo Anthony appeared reluctant to accept $124 million from the Knicks to stay on board for the next five years -- dangling the Chicago Bulls and Los Angeles Lakers in New York's face for two weeks -- it wasn't difficult to see why. As the league's second-leading scorer last season, those buckets didn't come easy. Time and again, Melo had limited help. He found himself double-teamed. Repeatedly, he zipped passes to open teammates, only to watch J.R. Smith shoot 41.5 percent from the field, Iman Shumpert shoot 37.8 percent, former Knicks point guard Raymond Felton shoot 39.5 percent, and Andrea Bargnani barely stick around to shoot any shots at all.

The result was a season of immense frustration, sullied further by internal griping and friction. There was even an accusation of quitting on the part of now-former Knicks center Tyson Chandler, followed by the exodus of coach Mike Woodson and the arrival of Jackson and Fisher.

Months of cautious enthusiasm followed as we witnessed Jackson ship Felton and Chandler out of town. He then acquired the steady Jose Calderon as the team's newest floor general. And he maneuvered the team's thinking into making Tim Hardaway Jr. more of a focal point with this team.

Fast-forward to Wednesday, when the Knicks are scheduled to host Derrick Rose and the Bulls. Fantasy lovers are salivating over Melo playing in the triangle, surrounded by shooters in Calderon and Hardaway, and fascinated at the prospect of what a hopefully healthy Amar'e Stoudemire might bring to the season. Yet no one seems to be paying much attention to the competition.

In the East, that is. We're not even talking about the teams in the Western Conference.

LeBron James is now back in Cleveland. A healthy Rose has returned to Chicago. And with Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh and the rest of Pat Riley's crew in Miami now agitated over the perception that greener pastures lay home in Cleveland instead of South Beach for LeBron, does anyone really expect the Knicks to be relevant in a championship equation?

If so, congratulations! You're the new fool on the block.

Before hitting a basket, running a play correctly or actually winning basketball games, the Knicks will first need to learn how to execute Jackson's vaunted triangle offense. Only then can we consider the notion of them being a contender.

It's one thing for Melo to come to the rescue when things inevitably break down (i.e., like Michael Jordan and Kobe Bryant) in Jackson/Fisher's system. It's another thing entirely to expect guys like Hardaway, Shumpert and Smith to execute from the 2-guard spot -- accurately reading defenses, reading their teammates and reacting accordingly and effectively.

As Jordan explained: "The league is tough. There are a lot of good players in this league, and they're spread throughout. No matter what you think you have, what you believe you have, you're going to need to be ready. That applies to everybody and everyone knows it. Those who are ready will win some basketball games. Those who aren't . . . "

He didn't need to finish the sentence.

Before we even get to the Knicks, there's Toronto and Brooklyn right in the Atlantic Division with New York. There's Jordan's Charlotte Hornets in the South. There's still Atlanta, with Al Horford returning. Detroit may be on New York's level now that Stan Van Gundy is running the show, as will the Washington Wizards now that they have a recent playoff appearance under their belt. And without even considering the rest of the teams in the Eastern Conference, that still leaves the Knicks as a sixth, seventh or eighth seed -- at best.

"Essentially, we're talking about the Knicks possibly making the playoffs, then going home in the first round," one Eastern Conference executive said. "That's not to say they're not going to improve. But they'll probably need six or seven extra wins to make the playoffs. I just don't see where that's coming from with the roster they have."

Neither does anyone else.

The thing is, Melo could negate such negativity. When you're 6-foot-8, 240 pounds, with a 3-point shot, a jump shot and a midrange game, and you're also a career 25 points-a-night scorer, you can erase a lot of ailments. Some nights it may not matter as much that Chandler's replacement, Samuel Dalembert, can't defend the way he once did. Nor may it matter that Bargnani can't defend at all, and that neither he nor Stoudemire may choose to rebound.

But all of those characteristics will matter on most nights -- especially for Fisher, the first-year coach who may have never known the definition of frustration until this season takes shape. The same thing could be said about president Jackson, too.

"We know we've got our work cut out for us," Fisher said upon first accepting the Knicks job. "This won't be easy, and this won't be quick. This will be a process. That much I'll admit."

A very long one, one would say.

Is there light at the end of the tunnel? It all depends on your definition.

A trip to the playoffs? Probably so.

A long run in the playoffs?

Not a chance.

It should be down to two teams for Carmelo Anthony.

The Miami Heat or the New York Knicks.

LeBron and South Beach or a return to Gotham City.

Melo has not said that it's down to the Knicks or Heat. It's just logic. Any other decision would be foolish.

What comes close to staying put in the Big Apple except when the game's greatest player calls to say: It's time for you to stroll down to South Beach, bro! And by the way, there are no state income taxes here!

The league's second-leading scorer still has the Knicks twisting in the wind. As of Tuesday afternoon, Melo still hadn't made a decision to come back to New York. Or head to Houston. Or to Dallas. Or to Phoenix or to the Los Angeles Lakers. All we know at the moment is that Melo is still struggling over whether to take the $129 million the Knicks have on the table, or at least $34 million less from anyone else.

This is what happens when years of mediocrity put your franchise in the unenviable position of needing a 68-year-old novice executive -- even if it is the great Phil Jackson -- to come to the rescue. Just don't buy into the notion that any destination other than Miami is a remotely viable alternative to Melo remaining in New York.

The Lakers, devoid of much else other than the aging Kobe Bryant, can only sell their locale and cater to the Hollywood aspirations of Melo's wife, La La.

The Phoenix Suns, rife with young talent and an exceptional young coach, are just that -- young -- and in the desert, which is not exactly a marquee landing spot.

The same could be said about Houston, even though the Rockets are tougher to resist with both Dwight Howard and James Harden on the roster. Dallas didn't help its case by adding another $30 million to its coffers with Dirk Nowitzki's contract, or by acquiring Tyson Chandler, which Knicks insiders could easily argue ruined any chance the Mavs had at Melo, because Chandler turned Melo off last season with his petulance toward former coach Mike Woodson.

LeBron James doesn't have these issues. In fact, he has history on his side. After all, it was LeBron, with Dwyane Wade, who implored Melo in 2006 to add an opt-out clause to his contract -- which would've made Melo a part of the 2010 free-agent class -- only to watch the former Denver Nuggets star snatch $80 million in guaranteed money over five years for the security.

LeBron's success serves as a reminder to Melo of what life could've been. For all of Melo's financial success, there are still just two appearances beyond the first round of the playoffs in his 11-year career. At the same time, King James advanced to his fifth NBA Finals.

So it's perfectly understandable why Melo hasn't announced yet where he's going, and why he appears to be waiting on something else. With Houston's four-year, $88 million offer to Chris Bosh pending, it's obvious Bosh's departure would create a void the Miami Heat will anxiously look to fill.

Enter Melo.

Melo's a 6-foot-8, 240-pound scoring machine. From the perimeter. From 3-point range. In post-ups, drives to the basket, from the free throw line. The fact is, Melo is pretty close to unstoppable as an offensive player -- and that's when playing with subpar players, not a superstar like LeBron James.

Together, they would a dynamic duo that would eclipse what Bosh added to James. Plus, Melo would offset a depleted Wade while helping spell a fatigued LeBron, which no one on the Heat was capable of doing this past season.

Melo knows this. "This is what he's waiting for," one source close to Melo said Tuesday. "That's not to say he's leaving New York. He will not let this decision drag out much longer. That kind of drama gets on his nerves. But how can he just make a decision without seeing what Miami will do in the event that Bosh heads to Houston? Without [seeing] what kind of pitch Pat Riley and LeBron will make to get him to come to South Beach? He can't just ignore the possibility of playing with LeBron. Anyone should know that."

The Knicks certainly do.

It's why, as we sit here now, the Knicks are concerned. Contrary to reports, they're not overly worried about the Lakers. Chicago can't get past offering Melo $75 million -- more than $50 million short of the Knicks -- so it's safe to count out the Bulls, too. And because the Knicks are still working the phones, talking with Philadelphia about using their $30 million in cap space to take Amar'e Stoudemire off their hands, it only increases their appeal to Melo, which can't hurt.

But none of the out-of-town scenarios equate to Melo landing in Miami with friend LeBron.

An arrival in Miami puts Melo in the championship spotlight for the first time in his career. It elevates his brand beyond the basketball court, and beyond national borders, extending to the likes of China and beyond. And it spells more money.

"The bottom line is simple: there's no option out here that compares to staying with the Knicks outside of teaming with LeBron," another Melo insider explained. "It's probably the Knicks, in all likelihood. But there's a reason he hasn't made his decision."

Houston, L.A. and Chicago all sound pretty nice. But LeBron and Miami?

Sounds like the only reason to jeopardize tens of millions to me.


Now that the New York Knicks have both a president of basketball operations and a coach with a championship pedigree, one would think there should be no problem luring players with winning ability to a city that's been starving for a title since 1973. But as we sit here today, the focus having shifted to compiling a roster that should reap such dividends, the attention now rests squarely on Carmelo Anthony.

Unfortunately, none of us are sure if Melo's attention is aimed primarily at the Knicks. But the Knicks would need it to be if they're hoping for any success in the near future.

With yet another NBA Finals taking place without the Knicks' participation, their new coach, Derek Fisher, did everything he could to paint a picture of a franchise moving forward, desperate to eradicate a culture of losing. But while winning is the priority, it would do well for the Knicks' new coach to remember that it is players who get it done for you -- and that Melo is his best chance.

You want to be respectable? You keep Melo.

You want a gate attraction? You keep Melo.

You want, at least, a shot at LeBron James? You definitely keep Melo.

No matter how far-fetched that chance is.

To be clear, Melo wants to play with LeBron James. And, from what I'm being told, LeBron James wants to play with Melo. Assuming circumstances are ideal for them to do so. Sources tell ESPN's Brian Windhorst and Marc Stein that the Heat are preparing to make a run at Melo this summer in free agency, hoping to add him to the Big Three of LeBron, Wade and Bosh.

As far as Melo and LeBron are concerned, they would've been together already had Melo embraced the advice from James, one of his friends in the league, back in 2006, to sign a contract in 2007 with an opt-out after three seasons -- just like James, Chris Bosh and Dwyane Wade did -- to make himself available for summer 2010.

It was Melo's decision to refrain, to take the five-year, $80 million deal offered by the Denver Nuggets, throwing a proverbial monkey wrench in James' plans. Essentially, the Big 3 could've easily been James, Wade and Melo ... instead of Bosh.

Melo blew it!

But that was then. This is now. And Carmelo Anthony, back then, didn't have the 11 years of NBA experience or the stable, business-savvy family life he has now.

Melo is a different man. With a far more substantive arsenal.

The future is just as important as right now. And quality of life is far more important than dollars and cents.

Here comes LeBron James.

Understand, the possibility of getting LBJ is slim. Annually, James is competing for championships. He's doing so surrounded by palm trees and gorgeous weather, for a first-class organization led by a first-class executive in Pat Riley with five titles on his resume. He's doing it in a place devoid of state income taxes and with a cheaper cost of living, with all of it serving as its own recruiting tool for prospective free agents-to-come.

By all accounts, LeBron can go wherever he wants. Whether he decides to leave Miami or stay, any team in the league will exhaust all options to make room for his arrival.

Still, LeBron doesn't care about money because he knows he'll get it. He doesn't care about where he lives because if he's adjusted to departing Akron, Ohio, for South Beach, he can adjust to almost anything.

What LeBron cares about is the roster he's playing with. The organization assembling it. And being happy, because the future is bright wherever he lands.

Winning is almost everything.

Winning with friends is everything!

Melo knows this, which is why the waiting game here in New York has lasted so long.

Melo knows before he does anything, he needs to talk to LeBron James when these NBA Finals are over. He needs to find out if LeBron is interested in coming to New York, or if he's staying in South Beach. Or if he has another destination in mind, where both of them can get their money and leave enough room for a strong supporting cast.

Such decisions may require that Melo opt in for an additional year with the Knicks before becoming a free agent next summer.

Or it may involve him becoming a free agent now, then leaving to go wherever he knows James will end up.

Remember, folks: No matter what the Big 3 in Miami says, they all knew they were meeting up in Miami months in advance. This is a similar scenario.

James kept his word to the fellas back then. According to sources, he always does. What LeBron James says and promises, he's known for delivering.

How else would we know about his crew (and management firm) LRMR -- LeBron, Randy, Maverick, Rich -- his boys from childhood?

"If you're LeBron's man, you're his man," one trusted confidant of LeBron's has said. "He's honorable on that level. He's an incredible friend. He means what he says. He does what he says he's going to do. And he does not break his word ... although it's hard as hell to get it!"

Dwyane Wade trusted this. Chris Bosh trusted this. And -- bet the house -- Carmelo Anthony trusts that what LeBron James says he'll do, he will do.

Don't think for one second that these sentiments have not been conveyed to MSG chairman James Dolan and the New York Knicks.

Knowing this, keeping Melo must be paramount. Unless Phil Jackson finds a young Michael Jordan or Kobe Bryant somewhere, Melo qualifies as the Knicks' best option.

The Knicks can talk all they want about Jackson's brilliance, his 11 titles, his triangle offense and all it has reaped, but choreographers are nothing without someone to dance to their routines.

Melo's the best dancer the Knicks have. For now and the foreseeable future.

So it's nice to see Fisher as the Knicks' new $5 million man. To know him is to be sincerely happy for the Knicks' new coach, who's epitomized nothing but professionalism and competitiveness throughout his 18-year playing career.

But Fisher can only coach what he has. Jackson, in all likelihood, only wants to preside over something worthwhile. And the best way for him to pull that off now is to keep Carmelo Anthony in a Knicks uniform for several years to come, utilizing his "connections" to help formulate a roster worth paying to watch at MSG.

There's an awful lot at stake if the Knicks fail in this quest. And, obviously, there's a chance we might not just be talking about Melo.


Now that Steve Kerr has chosen the Golden State Warriors, spurning his old coach and good friend to stay in his home state and coach a better team, it is time for Phil Jackson to do what he should have done the moment this season ended: Pick up the phone, call Mark Jackson and offer the former Warriors coach the job as the next coach of the New York Knicks.

It'll be the first thing Jackson has done right since accepting $12 million a year for the next five years as the Knicks' president of basketball operations two months ago. And it needs to be done in a hurry because, quite honestly, the clock is ticking.

The latter is not being said because teams are knocking down Jackson's door. In fact, at the moment, they are not. But none of this should matter when you are a franchise as dysfunctional as the Knicks, who tried to pull off a PR stunt by thinking they simply had to hire Jackson to quell the momentum of criticism aimed fiercely in their direction. Because as the weeks have passed, it's clear that little has changed with this franchise aside from adding an additional face.

And before Jackson gets too comfortable, it's time someone tells him he'll look no better than chairman James Dolan unless he makes a splash quick, fast and in a hurry.


Steve Kerr made his move. Now it's president Phil Jackson's turn. AP Photo/Kathy Willens
The only surprise about Kerr accepting the Warriors' job is that it took him so long to do it. Forget all the talk you heard about Golden State's interest in Stan Van Gundy because that was never going to work anyway. As gifted a coach as Van Gundy is, it was widely known he wanted control the Warriors weren't willing to surrender, especially to a coach known for wearing emotions on his sleeve -- the antithesis of who Mark Jackson was to a locker room full of Warriors' players who loved playing for him.

For those wondering why a man who never even coached prep players was hired, let's just say if there's such a course regarding schmoozing with all the right people, the now-$25 million man who is Steve Kerr would pass with flying colors.

If the Zen Master had such skills, Kerr might be in Gotham City right now. Except he isn't, in all likelihood because of Dolan's influence. Indeed, if the reports are true that the Knicks refused to guarantee a fourth year for Kerr, even Boo Boo the Fool knows such a scenario has Dolan's name written all over it.

So now where does that leave the Knicks?

To Knicks fans, it would be disgusted. Because, after all the singing and dancing about how Jackson is in control of basketball operations, we might have learned how limited it is thanks to Dolan. And if that's the case, what's to stop it from continuing? Especially if Jackson, 69, still insists he has no intentions of coaching.

Hello, Mark Jackson! How ya doing?

This is the play the Knicks need to make right now. Not just because Mark Jackson has proved he can coach. Not just because he guided the Warriors to back-to-back appearances in the playoffs for the first time in 22 years. But because, as a product of Queens, a St. John's alum and a former NBA Rookie of the Year for this Knicks franchise, he also qualifies as one of the rare few individuals this city would welcome with open arms. Plus, Jackson actually wants the job, wants to work the sideline and isn't asking for $12 million per year to do it.

Before the Knicks can win on the court, they need to win the pregame and postgame. The Knicks need to win in the court of public opinion, to have a coach who evokes patience and fandom all in one. And not just so Cablevision can win on Wall Street but also to have a chance at winning Carmelo Anthony.

Performing his due diligence, Anthony is paying attention to everything. Just as he has become more and more educated about what the Bulls, Lakers, Rockets, Clippers and others might have to offer as a future destination, he's also paying attention to what the Knicks have to offer.

Melo knows the Knicks had a chance at LaMarcus Aldridge and blew it. He knows they snubbed a trade that would've brought Rajon Rondo to New York or Kyle Lowry in a separate deal. All season, he sat around, played hard and averaged 27 points per game, while the Knicks stood idly by and did nothing -- primarily because Dolan wouldn't allow them to, telling the team in multiple meetings that the players weren't going anywhere.

And who can say matters have gotten better since he has hired Phil Jackson?

Jackson's first move was to bring Lamar Odom on board (we'll be kind and avoid elaboration on this one, folks!)

Jackson also made sure to fire Mike Woodson and the entire coaching staff. But Jackson also tried to get slick by publicly attempting to pressure Melo into accepting less money if indeed the Knicks' star elects to opt out, oblivious to how it would rub Melo the wrong way -- as it most certainly did.

So maybe someone else is needed to communicate with Melo, exercising persuasive dialogue. Because chances are President Jackson has lost some cachet in that category, at least for the moment.

Which brings us back to Pastor Jackson.

Known for having sermonlike tendencies, since he does have his own church in Los Angeles, that never stopped Steph Curry, Klay Thompson, Draymond Green and the crew from going all out for Jackson on and off the court.

Every one of them swore his love for Jackson. They vouched for his ability to communicate and understand them. To push their proverbial buttons, to peel max effort from them and, more importantly, to get results.

"The fact that there was even talk about him being gone was insane to me, to all of us," veteran Jermaine O'Neal said during the playoffs.

Insane, but true! Jackson is gone now, but his loss could be the Knicks' gain. He's intelligent enough to be taught President Jackson's triangle offense. He's savvy and knowledgeable enough to handle the local New York media. He can win any locker room, and chances are Melo would love to play for him.

If nothing else, it's worth it for President Jackson to make a phone call. Especially if he understands New York. And given that he's telling players he'll be around and he plans on running training camp in October, what's the harm?

To know Gotham City is to accept one thing: We appreciate you until you provide us with a reason not to ... by not giving us something to appreciate, cherish and cheer for.

Since President Jackson isn't interested in being Coach Jackson, he has already dropped the ball.

Strike one!

He didn't get his man, Kerr, as everyone knows he wanted to do.

Strike two!

Strike three, at the moment, would be passing on Jackson.

And no one swings it like New Yorkers who ain't happy.

No one should have a problem with Steve Kerr being a leading candidate for "a" coaching job.

He's a five-time champion. He's been groomed by champions. He's a former executive and a respected basketball mind who is far from the first individual with no coaching experience whatsoever to be on the verge of landing a head-coaching gig.

But that would be "a" job. As in one job. Not two jobs. Or three. Or four, depending on what reports you believe. For any individual with Kerr's lack of experience to have that many opportunities laid at their doorstep, it begs the question: "What the hell has Steve Kerr done to deserve multiple dabs at the cookie jar?"

Feel free to provide an answer to this question, folks.

Take your time. I'll wait.


Mark Jackson, despite back-to-back playoff appearances, doesn't have the same number of suitors as Kerr. Garrett W. Ellwood/NBA/Getty Images
For weeks, we've heard that Kerr has been the candidate for the New York Knicks' coaching vacancy. He's the guy Knicks president Phil Jackson wants. Actually, he's the only one, since no other candidate has even entered the equation. And if anyone has a problem with this, consider it nonsensical.

It's Kerr who won titles with Jackson. It's Kerr who knows the triangle offense. It's Kerr who has a personal relationship with Jackson, and is the man in whom Jackson purportedly trusts. And if the former coach with 11 rings wants a personal mentee to serve as a subordinate on the sidelines, it makes perfect sense.

But what sense do the Golden State Warriors make, since they called Kerr to gauge his interest practically minutes after firing Mark Jackson, fresh off of a 51-win season? What about the Los Angeles Lakers, who reportedly have some interest? Or the Utah Jazz, for that matter, who conceivably have zero chance of any reciprocated love from Kerr considering the other opportunities placed at his front door?

The answer would be simple: It makes absolutely no sense at all.

As unpopular as it might be to ask, I must: What exactly makes Kerr so special to anyone other than Jackson and the Knicks job? And oh, by the way, when has such an opportunity ever presented itself to any of his counterparts, especially blacks?

Avery Johnson is a former NBA Coach of the Year who guided the Dallas Mavericks to an NBA Finals, but can't get a sniff right now. Sam Mitchell, another former COY, has been relegated to depending on NBA TV and Sirius XM Radio to remain relevant.

Stan Van Gundy, an exceptional coach, is still available. Lionel Hollins can't garner interest despite guiding the Memphis Grizzlies to the Western Conference finals last year -- even while his successor followed it up with getting bounced in the first round. Some have questioned whether Mike Woodson will ever get another look after the season the Knicks just had, despite the fact that he'd just won 54 games and took the Knicks to the conference semis for the first time in 14 years just a season earlier.

We won't even bother elaborating on how former Detroit Pistons president Joe Dumars was forced by ownership to hire Lawrence Frank instead of Woodson more than two years ago, before being forced to fire Mo Cheeks about 50 games into this season. And we won't bother with how Kerr is actually a hot commodity compared to Jackson, who was just fired by the Warriors despite back-to-back playoff appearances for a franchise that hadn't accomplished that feat since 1992.

Instead, one must ask, why Kerr? Does anyone know if he can coach? Not necessarily for the Knicks' job, but more so for the several jobs apparently at his disposal?

"I've known him for 20 years," Warriors co-owner Joe Lacob said of Kerr, almost immediately following Jackson's firing. "I think very highly of him as an individual -- a great human being as well as a great basketball mind and a great pedigree."

Agreed.

But since when were those personal characteristics enough to qualify someone with zero experience at any level for multiple head-coaching gigs?

Has anyone taken a moment to ask if personal relationships and affections are all it takes to be a prime candidate these days, especially in three of the largest markets in the United States? What exactly does that say about black candidates -- and others -- who don't have such personal relationships to lean on?

As disgusted as we all should be that Mark Jackson lost his job after a 51-win season, the Warriors have every right to move in a different direction if they so choose. And so does Phil Jackson, particularly since anything would qualify as an improvement after the season we just witnessed in New York.

If Kerr has such intimate relationships with any of the other teams interested in him, more power to the TNT analyst. He's an incredibly nice man, unquestionably astute at the game of basketball, who deserves a shot. Mark Jackson got his without experience. So did Doc and McHale.

Except it's one thing to be a candidate for "a" job, and quite another to be THE candidate for several.

Since the Brooklyn Nets have been one of the best teams in the NBA in the calendar year, that certainly means they've been, arguably, the best team in the Eastern Conference over the same time period. But for anyone who believes that means they'll make some noise come playoff time -- that a championship parade may find its way to New York after all -- then you can hit those brakes right now unless Deron Williams decides to show up.

The Nets aren't going to the NBA Finals unless Williams shows up. They are not going to the Eastern Conference Finals unless Williams shows up. Chances are, they'd be hard pressed to get past the Chicago Bulls in the first round of the playoffs unless Williams shows up. And that essentially means the Nets aren't relevant in the grand scheme of things ... unless Williams shows up.

"He's important to this team," Nets GM Billy King told me recently. "He's very important to us. But he isn't the only one."

Whatever!

No one's trying to dismiss the contributions made by the likes of Paul Pierce, Joe Johnson, Shaun Livingston and even rookie Mason Plumlee. One's a first-ballot Hall of Famer. The other is an elite closer. Livingston is a sparkling addition to Brooklyn's backcourt, and Plumlee, quite frankly, is first-team all-rookie and, at the very least, a legitimate backup center who'll challenge Brook Lopez for years to come.

But if you don't see anyone standing up and screaming about the Nets, how legitimate their title aspirations are, it is because of the $98 million man who is regressing before our eyes.

Plagued by nagging ankle injuries since the 2012 London Olympics that have contributed to 16 missed games this season, Williams is averaging just 14.3 points on 44.9 percent shooting and just 10.9 points on 34.6 percent shooting over the past seven games.

Yet despite the Nets registering an impressive 33-14 record since Jan. 1, despite knowing that Williams (bad ankles and all) can still spot up and shoot, take defenders off the dribble and create his own shot with relative ease, there's still an underlying issue with Williams more salient than his ankle: his psyche.

"The truth of the matter is, it isn't good and has never been that good," one league executive said a few days ago. "From a talent perspective, you can't find too many people that would doubt he's worth an awful lot. But that's rarely the issue with him. The issue has always been questions about how bad he wants to win. What sacrifices is he willing to make? How much does he really care in the end? And believe me, people are still thinking about that now as the Nets approach the playoffs."

For the record, few folks within the Nets' organization are thinking about such matters right now. They're locked in. Focused on the upcoming playoffs. Leaders like Pierce and Kevin Garnett, who returned two games ago, are in Brooklyn's locker room for a reason. Diminishing the chances of a severed clubhouse stands atop practically all other obligations.

Yet everyone is aware that Deron Williams has had, arguably, the easiest job a franchise player could ever hope to have. With leadership from KG and Pierce, with Johnson's finishing abilities, with the depth the Nets possess, the exceptional young coaching by Jason Kidd -- practically hand-picked by Williams -- and stellar leadership from Billy King, all Brooklyn's point guard has to do is play.

"Nothing else," one Nets player told me weeks ago. "We believe in him. We know what he's capable of. And we're riding with him. But he's definitely got to ball. It's all he has to do, but he has to do it."

The question remains: Will Williams show up?

That question doesn't appear as poignant as it was a few months ago when, according to team sources, he had to be talked to separately by KG, Pierce and Johnson due to his unwillingness to play off the ball and concede point guard responsibilities on occasion to Livingston. That matter appears to have been resolved.

But there's still the issue of Williams' ankles, sloppy play and sporadic shooting. Considering the mandate handed down in training camp about winning now, accentuated by the $190 million invested in this roster by owner Mikhail Prokhorov, Williams' issues aren't something anyone's going to be interested in hearing within the next eight to 10 days.

Johnson, averaging 20 points on 54 percent shooting in April, isn't a decoy anymore like he was late last season when plagued by a foot injury. Nor will the focus be laid on his shoulders, since Pierce is an option for this postseason. Gone are Reggie Evans and Gerald Wallace -- who couldn't shoot -- replaced by Marcus Thornton, Plumlee and Mirza Teletovic.

"The Nets are a dark horse," another league executive said. "No one's ignoring them. But the truth is, they could go to the conference finals or they could be home in the first round."

One reason is that Chicago, led by Joakim Noah, is enjoying a successful second half. The other reason is more profound:

In the past two All-Star games, nine different point guards were asked to come and represent their teams at the midseason festivities: Chris Paul, Tony Parker, Kyrie Irving, Russell Westbrook, Jrue Holiday, Rajon Rondo, John Wall, Steph Curry and Damian Lillard.

None of them was named Deron Williams. And only CP3 is getting paid as much as him.

"The playoffs will make up for all of that," one Nets player said. "I believe he'll do what needs to be done."

For Brooklyn's sake, one would hope so. And we're not just talking about the team.

We're talking about Broooooooookklllyyynnnnnnn!!!!!!!!! Brooookkklllyyyynnnnn!

Before New York Knicks fans get themselves all up in a tizzy just because Phil Jackson is coming to town, they would be wise to check the fine print, scour the particulars and triple-check exactly what stipulations owner James Dolan has insisted upon. Because, chances are, the Knicks' billionaire chairman didn't institute real change. In fact, I believe he plans on keeping things just the way they have been.

Which means Jackson will primarily serve as a figurehead -- a prop -- to fend off the media. Which means Carmelo Anthony will see right through it all and leave the team this summer. Which means that no real marquee free agent will want to come to Madison Square Garden, unless it's only for the money.

Oops, I forgot -- Hello, Mr. Phil Jackson. How ya doing? Question: Why, exactly, did you take this job?

To be fair, no aspersions should be cast against a man with 11 championship rings and two more as a player with the Knicks in 1970 and 1973. Show me the fool who'd turn down a $12 million per-year deal to run a franchise, and we'll have learned what a new fool looks like.

But while there's no justifiable reason to debate why Jackson took the money, there's plenty of reason to debate exactly what kind of job he's taking. Because for the little that anyone knows about Jackson's capabilities as an executive, there's plenty of material to gauge Dolan's qualifications as a steward of a franchise.

Remember, Dolan initially sent Knicks then-president Steve Mills out west to talk to Jackson before heading there himself, according to sources. It was also Dolan who insisted that Mills stay on board in the Knicks' executive branch, probably as general manager.

It is Dolan who still stands alone in the NBA for instituting a dogged media policy, insisting on having coaches escorted by a publicist everywhere. He's the owner who still insists that coaches speak solely when he allows them to, considering it a fireable offense if they elect to do otherwise (case in point: Larry Brown). And he's the same owner who hired Mills as president nine months ago, but hasn't allowed him to speak in public for roughly the last seven months. Yet he's also one, according to numerous sources, who attends almost every practice.

In Dolan's world, you don't speak until you've mastered the art of saying nothing. You harbor no responsibility to the viewing or paying public at all.

Ask around and what you hear includes stories of coaches huddled in the same offices, no separate ones. You hear of players and coaches whispering with one another, petrified that their phones, offices or lockers are bugged, or that their emails are being checked.

The Knicks categorically deny such things, of course. But that means they've heard the stories, are aware of the paranoia and could care less. At least until now.

Can Jackson really eliminate this toxic atmosphere? One famous former player believes he just might be able to.

"Phil can do some good things with them because he's gifted," Michael Jordan told me on Monday. "Phil is fantastic at managing egos and personalities, getting everyone on the same page and maxing out whatever potential is there for what should be the common and ultimate goal. Just because he's never been an executive before doesn't mean he can't do that. He's wanted to do it for a while now and I know he can do it ... so long as he has the necessary pieces in place."

The thing is, those "pieces" Jordan was alluding to strictly pertained to the roster Jackson is able to piece together. Jordan's comments had nothing to do with Dolan or the environment at Madison Square Garden -- what some describe as the real issue that has contaminated this franchise for years, and threatens to continue to do so.

As of Monday morning, three sources familiar with Melo's thinking -- while conceding there's an outside chance he'll stay with the Knicks for the extra $33.4 million they could give him -- believe it's likely he'll be gone.

They said Melo is not about to endure another season of this ineptitude. That his faith in the Knicks' organization has waned considerably. But also that he's looking at his own basketball mortality and asking himself, "How much time will I really have left in my career if I stick around for this?"

If you're Phil Jackson, you will understand this line of thinking. And while Melo called Jackson's arrival a "power move," that only applies if Jackson can actively change the culture -- by, say, coaching the Knicks, which Jackson is not committed to doing.

Assuming Jackson can't do enough to stop Melo from leaving, Jackson's name will be attached to his star's departure. His cachet/influence will be questioned. Perhaps, worst of all, it will fall in line with what Dolan really wanted all along:

Somebody to blame for the Knicks' pathetic state of affairs other than himself.

"Phil is great," Jordan said. "He's very smart. He'll figure out pretty quickly what needs to get done and he'll have plenty of guys in the league willing to help him, myself included. The only problem is, none of us will be willing to give up great players or draft picks to do that. That's the part of the job all of us have found pretty difficult, me included. But I wish him luck. I believe in him and I'm confident anything he does will work eventually."

But only if James Dolan doesn't get in the way.

If the New York Knicks have mastered the art of begging, then there's no way on Earth they should let go of Carmelo Anthony.

But since we know they haven't mastered much of anything, and their history leaves them as one of the least desired destinations for an aspiring champion, it's pretty close to stupid for them not to exhaust every conceivable option to deal their resident star before the NBA's trading deadline.


Carmelo Anthony may wish he was on a team with a better supporting cast. Brad Penner/USA TODAY Sports
In other words, Anthony should not be a member of the New York Knicks two weeks from now. He should not be in position to hold the Knicks hostage once the summer rolls around. And let the record show, none of this is being said because of anything negative about Anthony.

It is because of the Knicks' ineptitude, their preoccupation with media policies and accessibility, public relations and spreadsheets -- everything but winning -- that Anthony should depart Gotham City sometime before Feb. 20. Because, truth be told, the Knicks are in no position to trust that anyone would want to stay with them.

Lost in all this back-and-forth regarding whether Melo should stay or go is the refusal of mostly sensible Knicks fans to actually be sensible. Go ahead and listen to Anthony say he loves being a New York Knick all you want. Listen to his lovely wife, La La, tell folks in the reality TV world that her husband isn't going anywhere else, debunking the myth that the Creative Artists Agency (CAA) is running the Melo Show instead of herself and her husband.

Just remember that Anthony still plans to opt out of his contract come July. He will be an unrestricted free agent. And then, if he decides to leave, not only will the Knicks be helpless to do anything about it, they'll also be devoid of the ability to ensure they'll receive equitable compensation for their most marketable commodity since Patrick Ewing and the most prolific scorer in the game next to Kevin Durant.

All because they trusted that someone like Anthony would actually want to stay in New York. It's enough to make you cry at how pathetic things are right now, once you stop laughing.

Wednesday night's loss to the Portland Trail Blazers was the latest piece of misery. It dropped the Knicks' record to 19-30. The latest losing skid of many this season now stands at three, meaning the team is winless in the month of February.

The Knicks are scoring 96.8 points per game, their lowest average since the 2005-06 season when they finished 23-59. They're averaging 92.6 possessions per 48 minutes -- second fewest in the league, ahead of only the Memphis Grizzlies -- which is indicative of a slow-paced offense too stagnant to entertain anyone, including themselves. Anthony, held scoreless in the fourth quarter against the Blazers, was devoid of any help, as usual -- and because of that, the vultures are already calling for the departure of point guard Raymond Felton. It'll happen for Tyson Chandler, too, soon enough, considering the development being shown by Jeremy Tyler, who's actually looking better than the $14.1 million center these days. And we haven't even gotten to coach Mike Woodson.

A lame duck before the season even began, despite winning 54 games last season, things have only continued to decline for Woodson. His assistant coaches didn't have their contracts re-upped before the season. Players, seeing the handwriting on the wall, have reverted to covering themselves, periodically calling out their coach. And rumors are swirling every day about whether Woodson will even survive past the All-Star break.

Meanwhile, additional rumors have circulated that not only are the Los Angeles Lakers a possible landing spot for Anthony in free agency, but the Chicago Bulls have entered the fray, as well. Needing to use the amnesty provision on Carlos Boozer and get rid of Mike Dunleavy Jr. just to have a shot at grabbing Anthony, the Bulls are supposedly being pushed to entertain such matters. And the Knicks, according to numerous NBA sources, have gotten involved by letting it be known they'd love to get Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau out of the remaining two years on his contract so he can come and coach in New York. Keep in mind, folks, that Thibodeau is a client of CAA, just like Woodson, Anthony, Andrea Bargnani, J.R. Smith, Knicks assistant GM Allan Houston and a host of others employed by James Dolan.

Oops! I forgot. Supposedly the Knicks could be interested in Jeff Van Gundy if that doesn't work out. But according to sources, nothing would be considered without major dollars being discussed, along with complete control of basketball operations and the eradication of Dolan's ridiculous media policy that muzzles coaches seemingly because their last name isn't Dolan.

So what does all this mean? In a nutshell, the Knicks are a mess. They're the NBA's version of the Dallas Cowboys -- an accident waiting to happen. Always.

There appears to be no plan. No structure. No rhyme or reason to what they're doing, outside of being tops on the Forbes franchise value list. Years ago that would've been enough for Melo, who dismissed LeBron James and Dwyane Wade's advice -- they urged him to make sure he was part of the 2010 free-agent class, instead of pocketing the guaranteed $80 million from the Denver Nuggets. But that was then, before he was married and before he saw the benefits of potentially collaborating with LeBron, Chris Paul or someone else of that ilk to accrue championships. This is 2014. It's a new day.

Does Carmelo Anthony really want to continue playing with the likes of Bargnani and Amar'e Stoudemire? Does he want to stick with a team that is losing now, with little in the way of salary-cap flexibility?

In the end, it's not about wondering what the Knicks should do. It's about wondering what Anthony will ultimately do: Stay with the Knicks, or leave for greener pastures?

These are the Knicks we're talking about here, folks. How hard do you think it will be for Melo to say goodbye?

Why torture yourself by praying he won't? Especially when you can just say goodbye and go your own way, and try to move forward for a change.

The way things are looking, it's just a matter of time before New York Knicks owner James Dolan fires Mike Woodson, makes Herb Williams the interim coach and figuratively resorts to bending over backward in an effort to assuage the concerns of a fed-up Carmelo Anthony.

Good luck with that!

Because if the Knicks fire Woodson, what they've essentially done is tanked their season by using their coach as a scapegoat, returning to a time of alarming ineptitude, frustration and lack of faith.

Let's call it like it is: Coach Woodson is in trouble. If the Knicks manage to fall to the Bucks, the NBA's worst team, Wednesday night in Milwaukee, it just may be a wrap for all intents and purposes. Woodson could be gone by the weekend.

Dolan may have had enough of Woodson, just as I'm hearing Knicks brass has had it with Woodson's assistant coaches. He may believe enough is enough and that the time for change has arrived.

Except eternal Knicks assistant Williams doesn't qualify as change. Neither would someone such as former Knick Larry Johnson or assistant GM Allan Houston -- who, in the interest of fairness, vehemently denied reports he's interested in replacing Woodson. And since you're not about to go out and hire a coach with some cachet to pick up this mess in the middle of the season, why bother doing anything right now?

"Don't expect me to comment on that," Woodson said the other day about his job status. "That's not where my mind is because I have absolutely no control over that. What I can try to control is getting guys to play hard, play together and doing everything they can to get us out of this funk we're in."

Woodson clearly didn't help himself in the Knicks' 102-101 loss at MSG to the Washington Wizards on Monday night. That Woodson neglected to call a timeout with six seconds left for the final play was egregious. That none of his veterans thought to do so themselves was embarrassing. The reality that such a collection of incompetence took place in the midst of all the negative momentum aimed in Woodson's direction serves not only as a reflection on the Knicks and how lost they are, but on Woodson himself, because he's not the one required to shoot jump shots, grab rebounds, block shots and defend tenaciously for 94 feet.

In other words, if you're not making sure everyone on the floor is astute enough to display a basketball IQ and, to some degree, be an extension of the coach on the floor, then what good are you as a coach? What else is it that you do?

"He's our coach," Melo proclaimed. "He acknowledged he made the mistake, so we'll leave it at that. There's no need for me to comment any further."

Yeah, but there is a need for Melo to play better.

If averaging 26.3 points (and 9.1 rebounds) on 45 percent shooting were good enough, Melo wouldn't be leading a team mired with a 7-17 record, and devoid of substance in any kind of championship conversation. And with this being Melo's 11th season -- eight of which have ended in first-round exits from the playoffs, by the way -- something has got to give.

Under normal circumstances, that putrid reality would be the dominant portion of the conversation. But this is New York and these are the Knicks. The same franchise that hasn't won a title since 1973, that's saddled by a billionaire owner who couldn't give two cents about what anyone says or thinks and appears to know very little about what it takes to steward a basketball franchise.

Now Woodson is caught in the middle of it. And it couldn't be more unfair.

While no one with sense could label Woodson as flawless, the man did win 54 games last season. He did guide the Knicks to the Eastern Conference semifinals for the first time since 2000. More important, he's the same coach who lost Jason Kidd to retirement in the offseason, started the first five games of this season without J.R. Smith, was forced to coach without the services of Tyson Chandler (who's expected back Wednesday or Saturday) over the past 20 games because of a broken leg and now finds himself without a viable point guard because both Raymond Felton and Pablo Prigioni are out with injuries.

"All I want is to have my guys back out there," Woodson deadpanned. "No matter what the circumstances, I have no doubt we can overcome them if we just get our guys back. Tyson will help us tremendously and Raymond will give us a floor leader. I'll love our chances in the East if we get those boys back."

Translation: If he's around long enough to get those guys back.

He deserves the rest of this season.

Everybody’s safe. For the moment.

For now, there should be no talk of coach Mike Woodson’s future. Nor should there be talk about Carmelo Anthony's imminent departure. At this moment, all that should matter is that the Knicks won a game, ended their nine-game losing streak, witnessed a fire-in-the-belly no one knew existed in Andrea Bargnani and -- oh, by the way -- have clearly dismissed the notion that they are the worst team in New York City.

That odious title disturbingly belongs to the boys in Brooklyn.

In the aftermath of the Knicks' 113-83 drubbing of the Brooklyn Nets, the only conclusion to be drawn is that there can be no conclusion drawn about the boys in Manhattan following the massacre at the Barclays Center on Thursday night.

Bargnani was hitting shots. So was Melo. So were Iman Shumpert and J.R. Smith, and even Amar'e Stoudemire and Pablo Prigioni. All told, the Knicks shot 57 percent from the field and hit 16-of-27 shots from beyond the arc, embarrassing the Nets in such alarming fashion that it provoked a cause to pause:

Maybe instead of worrying about Woodson and Anthony, we should be more concerned with Nets coach Jason Kidd and his supposed star, Deron Williams.

“We got our butts kicked,” Kidd deadpanned. “You’ve got to give the Knicks credit. They came in shooting around 32 percent. Tonight they looked like the team of last year that made a lot of 3s. When they started the game off, it didn’t seem as if they were going to miss. But we stayed the course.”

I’m glad he thinks so.

Reality, however, illuminated that neither Kidd nor the Nets, collectively, have the slightest clue what a course looks like. The Nets simply look like straight garbage right now. They can’t seem to shoot, pass or play efficiently. Periodically, they vacillate between looking slow, lethargic or soft, and with Paul Pierce and Williams both injured, Kevin Garnett appears too aged to stop the proverbial bleeding.

The Knicks, as a result, had Christmas early on Thursday night, accentuated by the fact that the Barclays Center might as well have been Madison Square Garden: At one juncture, Nets center Brook Lopez was literally booed at the free throw line in his own house as Knicks fans completely drowned out whatever faithful followers the Nets would have you believe they possess.

"I think everybody looked like they had that feeling that we were tired of losing," said Anthony, who finished with 19 points. "It showed from the tipoff."

It needed to.

Let the Knicks tell you what they want, but chaos has permeated this franchise for the past several weeks. Losers of nine straight, mired with the second-worst record in the league, Woodson was in immense trouble, no matter what the Knicks say. Rumors swirled around the league that Melo can’t wait for the summer to arrive so he can get out of here. Noise was being made about in-fighting pertaining to Shumpert's stubbornness, Smith's discipline -- on and off the court -- and Thursday night’s encounter only exacerbated the situation.

After resembling a bunch of snipers all last season, the Knicks hadn’t blitzed anyone this season. Entering the game, they hadn’t shot better than 50 percent from 3-point-range all season long. Yet, the Knicks made 63 percent of their 3s within the first three quarters. Shumpert -- of all people -- made five 3s. Even Stoudemire made five of his six shots, pausing the noise. At least momentarily.

Now, everything appears right for the Knicks entering Friday’s game versus Orlando. Suddenly, there’s light at the end of the tunnel. Just one win over the Brooklyn has quelled the negative momentum, hints of panic by the Knicks’ brass appears to have subsided, somewhat.

But it still doesn’t mean they’re out of the woods. The Knicks' next eight games are all deemed winnable, with a couple against Boston, one against an Atlanta team they’ve already beaten, plus Cleveland and Milwaukee on their schedule.

“We ended our losing streak; now it’s time to build off of this and move forward,” Woodson explained.

To do that, the Knicks will have to do most of what they did on Thursday night: be aggressive, hit shots, remain in attack mode and pray that Tyson Chandler returns quick, fast and in a hurry.

Until then, the Knicks are still a doormat -- in the pathetic Eastern Conference, for crying out loud. They entered Friday still nine games under .500, still devoid of a perimeter game and still perceived as a franchise on a fast track to irrelevancy. The kind of franchise who’ll have a new coach next season and, quite possibly, some other player to lean on outside of a star (Melo) who still may depart.

“I haven’t said I’m going anywhere and I’m not saying that now,” Melo reportedly said. “I don’t know where anyone would get that from.”

Hmmm! How about we’ve got it from a Knicks team still in possession of the third-worst record in the league.

That may not have mattered Thursday night with the Brooklyn Nets to deal with. But there are always the days ahead to consider.

The Big Apple. Gotham City. The Media Capital of the World. The City That Never Sleeps.

Those are just a few of New York City's monikers, indicative of a place where winners reside, where dreams become reality. Yet, as the holiday season arrives, with football and basketball dancing in our heads, no one could be blamed for preferring to spend their time in a place like, say ... Boston. Or Dallas. Or Indianapolis for that matter.

"Any place but New York right now," one Knicks fan yelled from Madison Square Garden the other night. "We suck!"

Who can argue with that sentiment right now?

As of Monday afternoon, the Jets were nosediving, hinting Matt Simms could be inserted as their starting quarterback. The Giants, fresh off spending a week bloviating in ways that would put Rex Ryan to shame, crashed embarrassingly by losing to the Dallas Cowboys, all but flat-out eliminating any postseason aspirations.

Meanwhile, there's the continual, inexplicable downward spiral of the Brooklyn Nets (3-10) plagued by two aging stars (Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce) being asked to do too much primarily because their highly priced star (Deron Williams) has been doing entirely too little, albeit mostly due to injury. And we haven't even gotten to the Knicks yet.

Losers of six straight, saddled with a horrid 3-10 record following their loss in Portland on Monday night, rumors have swirled about everything from infighting among players to Iman Shumpert having problems with the treatment he's receiving from coach Mike Woodson to Carmelo Anthony -- who finished with 34 points and 12 rebounds in Monday's loss -- growing so frustrated he looks like he wants to skip town now instead of possibly this July when he opts out of his contract.

Amar'e Stoudemire summed it up best.

"When the ball doesn't move, you can't get into a rhythm," STAT explained following the loss. "[When the] ball's not moving around, that makes it tough for the rest of the team to have fun out there. Right now, we're not having fun.

"I've worked my butt off to get in tip-top shape and to be able to compete at the highest level. To work that hard and to be losing like we are, it's not a great feeling."

He ain't lying.

It's bad enough the Knicks are losing, but it is worse when there appears to be no end in sight. Point guard Raymond Felton has missed the last four games with a sore lower back and left hip injury. Center Tyson Chandler has been out with a broken leg. More importantly, in watching the Blazers' 102-91 win, the differences in the two teams appeared obvious:

The Blazers love playing with one another. The Knicks seem as if they hate it.

"We've got to get our act together," Woodson has said numerous times recently. "It's a tough ride right now with all the injuries, but we've got to find a way to work through this."

Sadly, Woodson might as well be talking about every team in New York -- the Rangers, Islanders and New Jersey Devils included -- considering the way things are going right now.

After starting the season 0-6, Tom Coughlin was on a high as his team entered Sunday's game against the Cowboys riding a four-game winning streak. That was before Terrell Thomas and Jason Pierre-Paul opened their mouths, provided little production and all but eradicated their playoff hopes, leaving us to ponder what might have been.

Despite all the bantering about the Jets' vaunted defense, their offense has been pathetic. So much so that the same defense that's been lauded ad nauseam in recent memory periodically finds itself appearing demoralized, as if its members believe what we've all suspected for a majority of this season:

The Jets, when all is said and done, will be home for the holidays, watching the playoffs with the rest of us.

Brooklyn "will get ourselves together," GM Billy King recently told me. "We've had a couple of injuries to deal with, plus some jelling to do, but we'll get there."

The question is, how?

Will it be with a coach who's too inexperienced to garner the respect of veterans on his squad -- as has been the speculation over the past 10 days? Will it be with a $98 million point guard (D-Will) who's been sandwiched with quality and skilled veterans shielding him from having to do anything else but his job -- and he's still struggling?

And, by the way, if the struggles continue, how much more of this will KG be able to take before deciding to retire? Or Pierce for that matter? And when will someone figure out that Brook Lopez is simply the team's best player and that the offense needs to revolve around him?

"We've talked enough," KG said. "We've just got to correct things and keep playing. The season is still young."

Actually, it isn't anymore. Not for the teams and not for the city they represent.

Since none of them seem to recognize it, it's time someone tells him.

If not from here, maybe someone from Boston (Patriots, Red Sox) can break the news.

The temptation is there!

The temptation to believe that the Knicks are done. That Carmelo Anthony is done. That Melo's exodus to Los Angeles this summer is inevitable, all because the Knicks are not good enough to compete for an NBA championship.

But something strange has occurred in the past two games against Atlanta and Houston: Andrea Bargnani has decided to show up. A double-double vs. the Hawks, followed by 24 points against the Rockets, accentuated with an impressive defensive performance on Dwight Howard, suddenly has everyone a bit more optimistic.

"We've seen some glimpses of it since he's been here," Knicks coach Mike Woodson said Friday. "A few games ago, [Bargnani] had five blocked shots. He's starting to pick it up. He played Howard as well as I've seen anybody play Howard since Howard has been in this league.

"All bigs in our league struggle in pick-and-roll defense. There's just not a lot of low-post guys who can dominate the block. You don't see that on a night-in, night-out basis in our league. The fact that we saw Bargnani do what he did against [Howard], now we probably won't have to double as much and can stay out on shooters on the perimeters, which is very good for us because it'll only improve our defense."

We hope!

Before anyone ventures too far into fantasy land, renewing season-ticket packages to ensure prime seating for an NBA Finals, thinking Bargnani is to Melo what Dwyane Wade is to LeBron James, let's pump the brakes for a second.

The Knicks are 3-5. Already, there's a loss on the books to the Charlotte Bobcats. Melo, your resident star, has already declared he's opting out at the end of the season, and Bargnani, averaging just four rebounds per game, is still considered too soft to single-handedly compel Melo to want to stay and save Gotham City.

J.R. Smith needs to shoot better than 25 percent from the field instead of getting fined $25,000 for juvenile tweeting. Iman Shumpert, needing to punctuate his effort and defensive tenacity with better shooting and playmaking ability, "simply has to continue to play and stop worrying about all these trade rumors he's involved in, because that's part of this business," coach Woodson explained.

It would be really nice for Raymond Felton to shoot better than 37 percent from the field, and, at this point, we can only pray for Amar'e Stoudemire.

As each game passes, Stoudemire's knees continue to make one thing clear: It is time for him to retire. The only questions remaining are whether he'll reach that conclusion himself, and, if so, when. And can divine intervention -- or some prodding from chairman James Dolan -- expedite the process so the Knicks could get his numbers off their books and pursue another star to play with Melo for years to come?

Questions abound. But Bargnani has provided some answers.

Second on the team in scoring behind Melo, averaging 15 points per game on 52 percent shooting, and 44 percent from 3-point range, consider that Bargnani is replacing Marcus Camby and Steve Novak  and there's really nothing to say to that but "Thank God!"

Not only is Bargnani a 7-footer who can shoot, and is clearly capable of providing more consistency in that department than anyone else, but imagine the possibilities if J.R. finds his groove, if Tyson Chandler comes back healthy and if assistance is provided from anyone else on that front line like a Kenyon Martin or a Metta World Peace.

"We can do some things," Melo has said repeatedly. "We've got potential. We just have to play the games."

Winning helps, too.

There's another game Saturday night versus Atlanta. The Knicks visit the Pistons on Tuesday. There's a likely loss at Madison Square Garden against Indiana on Wednesday, followed up by a four-game road swing through Washington, Portland, L.A. (Clippers) and Denver.

Conceivably, the Knicks should win four of their next six games, putting them at .500 ball.

"It's early," Woodson deadpanned. "We just need to continue to work and get better. The rest will take care of itself."

In theory, Woodson is correct. But in reality, there are more substantive matters.

Wins equal productivity. That translates into hope. And when your star (Melo) has displayed enthusiasm toward impending free agency -- which means potentially leaving -- the Knicks' default position is to look around and entertain thoughts about what will entice him to stay.

Bargnani is far from the answer, but his productivity is a start. Now, if he keeps it up and others decide to join in, maybe we'll begin to have real conversations about "potential" and the New York Knicks.

The kind that are warranted, that is!



